Hi there, and welcome to this Pluralsight course,
Monitoring and Event Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers.
My name's Mike Brown, and in this module we're going to be
working with EC2 metadata and user data.
We're going to begin this module with an introduction to EC2 instance
metadata before going on to introduce EC2 user data.
We'll then demonstrate working with metadata and
user data through the AWS console.
So let's begin with our metadata and user data introduction.
Metadata is information about an instance.
This includes everything from the instance ID to the AMI
that was used to deploy the instance,
essentially, most of its AWS configuration attributes.
We can use this metadata to configure and manage running
instances. So we can match things like deployments,
maintenance, and security controls against the information we find in metadata.
We can think of user data as being like a set of instructions.
These instructions are used to customize an EC2 instance, usually during launch.
User data might include instructions on roles,
software packages or agents that need to be deployed during launch,
or how different parts of our operating system or
software packages need to be configured.
We can then view this user data after launch and potentially reconfigure user
data to provide additional instructions for our instances.
So,
examples of metadata include the IAM role that's
associated with an EC2 instance.
In fact,
it's because this role information is part of metadata that
applications that are running on our EC2 machines can assume those
roles to perform actions in AWS. Metadata includes the public and
private IP addresses used by the EC2 instance.
The public IP address, in particular,
wouldn't be available to the operating system or applications
if it wasn't shared as part of metadata.
We can also share the details of scheduled maintenance
events through metadata as well.
That way,
our applications and operating systems know when
these maintenance events will occur.
Today there's two metadata versions,
the Instance Metadata Service version 1 and the
Instance Metadata Service version 2.
Now, version 1 uses a basic request/response method that allows
applications to run on the EC2 instance to retrieve the metadata.
There's no authentication involved in this method,
which means the metadata could be vulnerable if applications are
misconfigured so that external actors could use the misconfigured
application to retrieve the metadata.
The version 2 Metadata Service uses a
session‑orientated method to access metadata.
So the metadata service requests an access token.
This access token is issued and will expire after a given period of time,
essentially temporary access to the metadata service and the
information it holds like role information.
Once a token expires,
a new token will have to be requested to access the metadata service again.
So version 2 of the metadata service is considered more secure than version 1,
and for our EC2 instances,
it's up to us to decide which version of the metadata
service we want those instances to use.
One of the key components of the metadata service is
it makes it easy to pass secure,
often rotated credentials to applications, and a prime example
of this is a role attached to an EC2 machine.
We can make that role available to applications running on the EC2 machine.
This means we don't have to embed credentials in the application itself,
they can request access to the role when they need to perform an AWS action.
When working with the Instance Metadata Service,
consider disabling it if it's not required.
So if you don't need your applications and operating
system to have access to that data, turn it off.
That way,
there's no danger of our metadata being exposed if our EC2
instances was infected with malicious code.
If EC2 instances do not require a role, don't assign one,
because once the role is assigned, if the metadata service is available,
then applications on that instance can assume that
role and use the role's actions.
And if you are assigning roles for a metadata service to make available,
then always use the principle of least privilege.
Figure out what your applications running the EC2 instance need,
and assign an EC2 role that gives the application the actions it needs,
but nothing else.
Finally, consider disabling version 1 of the Instance Metadata Service.
Because it doesn't require any authentication from the applications
themselves to access the metadata information,
it does make it a bit more vulnerable than version 2.
But, caution here,
make sure that the applications that you're deploying can
work with version 2 of the Metadata Service.
Now, as we said, user data has a set of instructions for your EC2 instances.
User data must be Base64 encoded,
you can specify the user data at launch of the EC2 instance,
and when it's deployed,
you can see the user data either through the console or
from inside the operating system, using the 169.254.169.254 IP address.
Now, user data can be modified if you stop an instance,
but it won't be automatically applied.
You have to make change inside the operating system to make
sure that user data is reapplied at reboot.
Here's an example of Linux user data.
This is a bash script that deploys the Apache web server at
launch and makes sure the web server is started.
A second example here, this time with PowerShell,
deploying the IIS web server and its management tools.
And finally, in this third example, we're applying user data using the CLI.
So here we'll launch an EC2 instance, and notice the user data section
identifies a script that will contain our user data.
So now we've got an idea of what metadata and user data is, let's jump into a demonstration where we can show you both.